# D-402
RIT VIRTUAL HACKATHON
Idea: A smart band to fight COVID-19
The Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus. The virus that causes COVID-19 is mainly transmitted through droplets generated when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or exhales. These droplets are too heavy to hang in the air, and quickly fall on floors or surfaces.
You can be infected by breathing in the virus if you are within close proximity of someone who has COVID-19, or by touching a contaminated surface and then your eyes, nose or mouth. An emergency lockdown during this COVID 19 pandemic serves as a best way to prevent people from getting infected by the deadly corona virus. In addition to everyday steps to prevent COVID-19, keeping space between you and others is one of the best tools. We have to avoid being exposed to this virus and slowing its spread locally and across the country and world. To ensure social distancing and preventing oneself from entering a high-risk zone, we have proposed a solution in the form of a wrist band. This wrist band is specially designed to tackle the spread of Coronavirus disease. 
The wrist band contains a location detector which monitors and tracks the location of a person. Also, the band consists of a human presence sensor that detect a human presence, so, if a person comes in close contact with any other person or if a person enters a crowded area, the wrist band produces a beep sound alerting the user to stay away from other people. If the area in which the user stays continues to be crowded for more than a specified time interval, an alert message is sent to the nearby police station. Thus, it effectively helps in social distancing. In addition, the wrist band predicts the areas of high risk and alerts the user to avoid his entry to the high-risk zone. 
The wrist band comes with smart phone integration, so that all the data recorded by the wrist band gets transmitted to the mobile phones. The application holds a database of high-risk zones of COVID-19, which are also called as hotspots. Also, the database gets automatically updated. If a person enters a hotspot, a warning message along with a beep sound is produced. 
The wrist band allows the user to make emergency calls during emergency situations. The band also holds some of the basic features of a fitness band which includes heart rate monitor, step counter, tracking calories burnt, monitoring body temperature, app notifications, view messages instantly, call display/rejection, app notifications and phone locator.
